In this video, we're going to see how to determine when a set of vectors spans all of Euclidean space or not.
So in this particular example, I've got four vectors in R^3 here, and we want to know if they span all of R^3 or just a smaller subspace.
So the first thing to do is to unpack our definition of spanning.
So when we say it spans all of R^3, what we mean there is that we can build anything in R^3 out of these four vectors.
So in other words, I want to think about building things--so I'll take these vectors, multiply them by some scalars--which we don't necessarily know,
so I'll use variables x_1--and we can add them or scalar multiplication.
So x_2 times the second one and x_3 times the third one.
[1 1 -6] and x_4 times the fourth one.
All right. So this represents the things we can build out of these four vectors.
And our question is, can we build everything in R^3 out of these vectors? So can I write down some arbitrary b here?
And the question is. Does this have a solution
For every b in R^3? All right.
So how might we answer that? The idea is we don't know what that b is,
but we can still look at the left hand side of this system and try and deduce if we're always going to have a solution.
So what we'll do is we'll look at the matrix that goes with the left hand side of
the system here and think about what would happen if we augmented with something.
So I'm not going to write down an augmented thing. Because that would just be a bunch of variables that we don't know.
All right, hand the left hand side of this system here or this vector equation.
Which looks like this. All right, and if we did have a particular b,,
we would augment with this and we would find the reduced row echelon form to find a simpler system to determine if we would always have a solution.
So we can go ahead and compute the RREF of the left side here.
I typed this into Wolfram Alpha or expedience. And this produces the following.
Simpler matrix. So now what we want to think about is what would happen if we augmented this one on the left.
So that would be if we chose a particular b and put it in there.
So there's really only one thing that could go wrong and produce a inconsistent system here
is that if we end up on the right hand side with a row that says zero is equal to one.
So the first row is never gonna produce that. The second row is never going to produce that.
Our third row, because we have zeros over here in the third row.
It's possible that for some choice of b we're going to end up with one in the bottom spot and that's going to produce an inconsistent system.
So -- let me change colors here--so this bottom row is really what's flagging this as a problem for us.
for some b in R^3.
And we don't need to know exactly what that b is here.
We just need to know that there's some thing in R^3 that we can't build out of these four vectors.
So the answer to our question in blue is no. There is some b where we end up with an inconsistent system.
So the answer to our original question is also no, these vectors do not span R^3.=
because there is some vector in R^3 that we cannot build out of those four vectors.